CSCI 130 Reflection Paper
Jagmeet Gurm

I was always fascinated by the web programming world but had no experience in it at all. Now, I can do front-end programming quite confidently as I have learned HTML, CSS.  As far as the back-end is concerned, although I have not mastered it, I can deploy websites of multiple web pages through Google’s app engine which handles client requests. 

We did our back-end programming in Go language, which is fairly a new language supported by Google. It is a very powerful & concise language which supports concurrency, garbage collection. Since, all laptops now have the capability to support concurrency, this language has all the features to exploit this feature of modern processors.  This makes the programs written in this language remarkably fast as compared to the same programs written in any other high programming languages. The only hiccup in learning a new language is lack of availability of resources for references or the examples. But then, this also allows to find your path on your own, often after a lot of struggles. Sometimes you are successful, and sometimes not. But this has now taught me how to look for resources and use them. And this capability can be used to learn any new programming language in future. 

We had a lot of assignments for this course, almost one assignment per class. Assignments were a mean of getting more experience on what we just learnt in the previous lecture. They were fun and proved to be a great source of learning. And some of them were challenging as well. For example, in one of the assignment we were required to develop a website from scratch using html/css at the front-end and GO as the server side language. Also, we were supposed to use certain features both at the front and the back end.  And then host it on Google’s App engine. Another one was in which we were required to use Google cloud storage to store our data in the Google database. This one was the most challenging one for me at least. But this has now enabled me to use data storage of Google. In fact, this class has introduced us to a lot of great API’s of Google which we weren’t aware of earlier. 

The experience with Todd McLeod has been a really nice one. He has been really helpful, and accommodating.  He would go over new topics in class, students were allowed to ask questions and also contribute their knowledge to the lecture. This allowed the participation level of students to be really high in the class and lectures. Overall, it was a fun learning environment.  
